Jul 18, 2014
E3 2014
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whf-Q78qokU
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/478353344608485376
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-e3-2014 (archive.ph/QASNe)

hey everybody today on previously
recorded we're in sunny LA for e3 that's
right we're gonna check out all the new
and innovative video games while we
check out the ladies at the beach
okay Jax so the e3 conference is going
on the Electronic Entertainment Expo and
we just watched all the major press
conferences from Microsoft Sony and
Nintendo you know the funny thing about
e3 and about these types of events is
it's it's like the one time of year that
we say okay corporate America sell us
that's all it is is marketing but we
want it I guess we should start with
Xbox Xbox was the very first conference
kicked off the the e3 events this year
to a yawn the big yawn
yeah this year they were all about the
games today we're dedicating our entire
briefing to games
none of them have a sense of humor
they're all dark they're all going for
some kind of generic nondescript
realistic-looking setting and they all
look boring in the same yeah the first
one they they they presented was a Call
of Duty Gears of Titan quake nice Call
of Duty is now ripping off titanfall who
was ripping off Call of Duty well though
the one the one ray of hope in the the
Xbox presentation was sunset overdrive
can you imagine that the games can have
color jack did you know that I didn't
anymore and he jumps around and and
there's jokes there's humor and their
style I'm gonna call that the green day
of the video game conference where it's
like sure it's punk rock but you know
what
it had colorful explosions it looked it
looked like it would be a fun game to
play stylistically at least it was a
brush of fret there is a bold and
innovative adventure completely
redefines the Assassin's Creed
experience we want to create an
experience unique in multiplayer gaming
we have a revolutionary new way to play
a first-person shooter for player co-op
but like Assassin's Creed evolved
dragon's age now with multiplayer fable
now with four player co-op okay they
very specifically don't want to be
revolutionary right they after last
year's disaster Microsoft wanted to be
safe and predictable
the the halo halo games I mean the chief
selling point during that presentation
was that it was exactly like the old
halo halo 2 anniversary will contain the
original Halo 2 multiplayer exactly as
it shipped 10 years ago so they're
packaging the first three halo games
each bundled with their own specific
engine just to make sure that it's
exactly how you left it halo just pay
low twos well we updated the graphics
but you can switch back to the old ones
at any time absolutely just you can have
it just the way you want it just please
don't hit me and he's merging on me okay
thank you
halo [ __ ] halo the [ __ ] [ __ ] they
can do whatever the [ __ ] they want with
halo I just don't care if I was a fan of
the Halo series it would be very nice to
have all of my games in one space on my
new system inside which is the indie
side scroller where you play as a little
kid traversing a big scary world made by
the makers of limbo where you play as a
little kid traversing a big scary world
even in indie games would they just want
to make the same [ __ ] game no no I
know
does does any of the games they
announced make you want to run out and
buy an xbox one any of them that is a
good question
rich for me none of them threes
which is a game you can play for free in
any web browser on any cell phone
so now we get to Sony second presscon
for watch you know what they opened up
their conference with which is something
I [ __ ] hate about modern day game
culture is their new early access system
millions around the world have been
eagerly awaiting the destiny beta do you
want to play a mostly broken game and
give us feedback for free and for those
PlayStation fans who can't wait until
next month ps4 owners around the world
will get a chance to play the destiny
first look alpha they're using beta
access as an early marketing tool where
they say we can get people really hyped
about this game months before it comes
out by having them actually play it the
only problem is that all their hype is
for the beta and then when the actual
release comes out no one will give a
[ __ ] because they're on to the next game
already how do you feel about destiny
yeah this what's the selling point of
this game every time they mention it
it's supposed to be the next big thing
there's a sea of generic science-fiction
games I'm happy to announce our first
ever white PlayStation 4 that comes
is there anyone dumb enough who's gonna
buy a console just because it's a
different [ __ ] color does the same
[ __ ] that comes hey more sequels second
son LittleBigPlanet a far cry for that
Island - there's no Mortal Kombat a new
uncharted a common theme that you guys
wrote in about with zombies I mean who
doesn't love us some zombie action why
do you still want Sambi game yeah yeah
okay the trailer for Dead Island 2 that
is the moment where I am now officially
sick of zombies
I am now sick of them and I'll be glad
if I never see them again yeah you did
it finally did it
congratulations it took it took ten
years of constant zombies being thrown
in your face but I'm done with them now
I hope that they're over soon I don't
know jack it will die like zombie it
won't die
excellent pun yeah no man's sky
Oh
what the [ __ ] is that Oh God
it's like a X planet exploration space
flight sim game world building takeoff
from one planet fly into a space battle
and then go to a completely different
planet new idea no big Marines with guns
I didn't see one zombie in the know know
that for me it was one of those where
it's like if that is a ps4 exclusive
yeah that is a system seller after 15
years double fine in tandem with a third
party production team will be
remastering your classic adventure game
Grim Fandango
great Mars story the characters are
amazing the world is wonderful
it's got Tim Schafer's sense of humor
and III will eat that [ __ ] up when they
when they release it and there's mole
that's a good thing to preserve classics
and grim fandago is a classic worthy of
preservation Batman Arkham Asylum was a
really great game it's a really great
Batman experienced combat Snicket ood
you know you could you could you could
be sneaky how sneaky do you think Batman
could be in a tank
and I really [ __ ] hate the iron
plated bat soon keep Iron Man out of my
Batman I would love it if like the self
portions everybody's always instantly
alerted by Batman going clang clang
swing
I am going to call myself an incredible
[ __ ] and hypocrite
I know you're loving Smash Brothers
Smash Brothers looks great it's it's the
fifth one and it's there's nothing new
about it but your Smash Brothers fan
you're gonna buy Smash Brothers this is
why new ideas don't work I know what I'm
sorry Nintendo is now ripping off
Skylander oh yeah
and I get it it makes sense Skylander is
one of the most brilliant games ever to
be conceived in the modern era because
they can make so much money this is no
ordinary toy amiibo Hyrule warriors
since we're on Zelda I don't play the
dynasty Warriors game dynasty warriors
is some of the most fun you can have
gaming it's also one of the dumbest
games in the world you play a giant
ancient samurai warrior with a giant
weapon and you get to mow down hundreds
of enemies okay it's awesome there are
ways of doing something different yet
derivatives with Zelda if you remember
in the early days of the Wii we didn't
get a Zelda game at launch
we got Zelda's bow and arrow archery it
wasn't a spinoff what it was was a
placeholder
that's what Hyrule warriors feels like
to me like we have a new Zelda coming
out won't be coming out for another year
here's something you get to play a Zelda
they made up they made a big deal at the
beginning of the press conference you
know we won't be announcing another
Mario game actually no new Mario game
today what am I getting bumped but they
blatantly wide because there's that
Mario maker game they talked about
the Mario game where you can make your
own Mario levels that Mario can jump
around in it's either gonna be classic
Mario or new Super Mario Brothers Mario
with Mario a Mario game creator sure is
really exciting sure I that to me is is
a bit of a console seller because I love
platformers
as of Skyward Sword I was officially
sick of Zelda I'm kind of interested I'm
not I'm not like wetting my pants over
the new one but it looked really pretty
and not only did it look pretty the big
thing about the new Zelda that they've
promised yeah is that we're not telling
you where to go if they can pull that
off I mean I am looking forward to that
I am looking forward to a return to
exploration that was that was all the
one yeah yeah you just learned that oh I
need to do this dungeon before I do this
dungeon or else I'm gonna get my ass
handed to me I like that that's squid
game what do they call it splatoon what
splatoon it was a fresh take on the
online only multiplayer first-person
shooter yeah you its territory control
you spray ink didn't that just look so
creative and wonderful
