Jul 15, 2014
Titan Fall
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/489098280454721537
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152255545347634
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-titan-fall (archive.ph/E60VY)
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedLetterMedia/comments/2aso3r/prerec_titan_fall

hi jack hi rich damn microphone
oh alright I'm telling you oh whoa hey
other than that I'll go to titanfall is
a first-person shooter that features
giant robot mechs that you can get into
we played the Xbox one version there's
there's the standard multiplayer modes
just capture the flag is what are they
call it the capture the area what what
are they normally call both control
point drill points there's capture the
flag control points T generic generic
deathmatch and you could only die once
in deathmatch yeah yeah that's the basic
gist of everything in the game pretty
much that's everything that's the whole
game there you go there's a very simple
game yeah I'm going around I'm gonna
flank them drop the enemy twice cos so
be [ __ ] flying
you don't even know what's going on
where are you going I go I'm flanking
use like nobody yeah well that's the
pole that's the joy of the flank is no
one sees me coming oh that's a bad guy
Burger King good work but you know what
when I went in I was thinking I would
absolutely hate it you know but instead
I'm just kind of like I started off
really digging it because it looked
great
ah you get to fight gut with guns and
robot guns see how much that came from
the fact that it was your first Xbox one
game your first current generation
console game cuz you turn on and it
plays smooth it looks really nice sure
I'm okay I'm okay admitting that and
then the reality of the game started to
set in my problem with this game maps so
broken concrete grays and browns because
it's war-torn right which yes it looks
war-torn gray it's not very interesting
to look at the realistic shooters so of
course they want their maps to look very
realistic they want their military
uniforms to be very realistic and when
you're in the military you want to blend
in to your surroundings so your enemy
doesn't see you which is great for real
life when I'm in a video game I want to
know who the bad guy is so I can shoot
him alright it's now time to play good
guy or bad guy what do you think about
these three guys do they look like good
guys or bad guys well they're good guys
but how would you know how about this
guy is he a good guy or a bad guy
congratulations he's a bad guy and now
you've been shot in the face but it's
like you see a beige man and you don't
know if he's on your team or their team
you have to get a little closer
that's terrible by the time you know
what he is he's already killed you said
blue or red or let me know
right there there was nothing over there
right you couldn't tell what else you
couldn't tell what it was
oh look this this is something that
bothers me the most about these style of
games is we seem to die a lot well
specifically we seem to die quicker it's
like a number of times I feel like
you're fighting someone else no they'll
absorb like five hits and you die after
like one during this playthrough there
was a moment in which you and an enemy
robot fighting and you were both machine
gunning each other and he was on fire
yet he still blew you up first yes I
don't feel like I'm using any ability I
feel like if I find someone who's not
paying attention I can kill them and if
I take someone head-on they're going to
kill me yeah
that's literally all that has happened
yeah I'm titanfall well this is all
ambush ambush ambush ambush should you
die and you see the killcam it's
somebody who's up on a roof or somebody
who was behind you
it's never man-on-man and like this
little duel going on
yeah see that's why that's why I just
tend to find these kind of multiplayer
games more frustrating than enjoyable
sure see I play games specifically
because I don't want to interact with
other people I go home I just want to be
myself and turn on this game and be in
my own little world if I want real
challenge and excitement I think that
multiplayer is one of the best places to
get it
I'm not against a good challenge but I I
think the reason I play games what I
like in a game is just a good experience
I like a game that presents me with an
interesting world interesting characters
and I can just kind of lose myself in
that that fictional environment
absolutely yeah yeah
in fact it's a game and not a movie it
kind of feels like you're part of the
experience you're in there
and I was like a good challenge isn't
the only reason to play a game to me
like the challenge is what makes it a
game sure the thing that defines a game
over any other form of escapism for me
is that you are trying to accomplish
something there's an objective that you
have to meet and you have the option of
failing and so with a multiplayer game
you know it's the most dangerous game
because you're hunting man a game can be
very empowering it's like you know doom
you're the guy with the the guns and you
defeat all the demons and you're the big
strong hero and you play a game like
like doom it's just oh that's empowering
yeah I kick their ass but you play
[ __ ] tight and fall and it's like
deep powering it's AK oh my god please
please don't hurt me anymore please stop
please okay all right hi let's get
serious now
what it what are you doing what are you
doing what are you there's a war out
here
what are you they're doing their jobs or
worker robots
you had this one run where you're doing
like really good you killed like five or
six people in a row and you were riding
high and then you found out it was five
or six people you're killed
we're just like AI robots that didn't
that aren't effective at all in the game
they're there in the game just so that's
stupid people like us can feel good
about ourselves when we're dying all the
time okay hey guys I guess they don't
care they're just waiting to die oh
these are like robots
grunts gameplay wise pure mechanic wise
did no harm to you because they can't
hit anything and if you got rid of them
if you killed them it added nothing to
your score they are useless they are a
thing that negates themselves all they
did was distract you they're there to
make bad players feel better cuz even
when I was dying all the time it felt
good to kill something like those grunts
are masturbation for those two seconds I
felt great and then I just felt a shame
then that's oh oh did you see that guy
yeah he [ __ ] jumped how do you jump I
don't know hey button turn to base good
work these are good things to know I
think so so the question is would you
recommend titanfall
I would never recommend a multiplayer
only game that's just be I for me to
like a game and I have to like the game
before I give my recommendation
it can't be multiplayer only there's got
to be an interesting single-player
element really oh wow so I do not
recommend
you but I mean not just not titanfall
you don't recommend any any multiplayer
only game they're just that care I'm
very torn on this because I did have a
good time overall yeah I am going to
recommend this if you don't have a
computer that can play a different game
like there are people there that don't
have a computer that can play a Team
Fortress 2 if you are looking to play an
online-only multiplayer shooter Team
Fortress 2 is free like there's a giant
asterisk next to my recommendation
here's the aspects gripe if you don't
have a computer and only have an Xbox
one and want to play a multiplayer
online only shooter game then if no
other online only shooter games have
come out yet for the Xbox one then you
should probably play this one that's my
recommendation oh my god that's a great
recommendation Jack ok message of the
day thanks for playing titanfall if you
experience any technical issue contact
customer support well that's reassuring
that the first thing you see once the
game comes on is is it's a message about
sex importance for all of the many
problems you're going to encounter and
then the third one that was like they
got more shooter oriented and like the
talking elements went down you're
talking choices and the dialogue tree
and the branching paths they just went
down and then you got the ending where
they thought the end of their space
adventure Star Wars story was this 2001
Space Odyssey
but depressing
it was like they completely does yeah
these things
no no we've been taught we've been
talking they're so little to talk about
in titanfall that we've been talking
about mass effect for the past 10
minutes and
please
