Oct 2, 2014
Guacamelee
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aa5dmhXc3j4
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/517677773209346048
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152410600817634
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-guacamelee/ (archive.ph/H5x1u)

Hola, Rich.
Hola, Jack.
guacamelee is un simple juego de acción the plataform ass sí
tiene personnel allowed a controllers
incredible mental apparatus
guacamelee s a la vez una celebración e
un brilliant a templo del general and
todos OS blender
the game is available on almost every
single console it's for Mac is for
Windows it's on the ps4 ps3 PS Vita and
the Wii U and the Xbox one and the
xbox360 we played the Vita version of
the PC version and the Wii U version yes
you're truly the greatest chicken
warrior it's it's almost as if Metroid
were a brawler because every everything
combat wise as a brawler combination but
like Metroid you have to go through each
level and there's little areas that you
can't quite reach yet and you need to
find the powerup to get into that area
so it's basically if Metroid were about
a Mexican wrestling it's a very stylish
game yeah it's in the style of Mexican
folklore and very very Mexican
culturally and enriched they they love
their Luchadors all respects to the
mighty Luchadors and you as one are a
poor guava farmer who can never be as
mighty as a luchador
discriminate its little liuchiu
daughters only it's a little over the
top much like all of the game which I'm
finally right
this game has a ton of style yeah all of
the animation is beautiful the designs
are very neat I hate I hate needless 3d
in like side-scrollers and I would cite
a game like this it's an example of why
because yeah this is this kind of just
great-looking hand-drawn animation and
like you look at ones running animation
and it's just it's so exaggerated but it
works and it just feels like you're
running I love just watching you move in
the game one of the things that drink
box Studios did the most right about
this game was enemy design every enemy
has a unique either color scheme or
movement about them you can easily tell
what enemy is coming at you and how to
deal with that enemy instantly in in
silhouette as you often have to worry
about in this game there's a lot of
enemies you only see in silhouette that
is the mark of really good character
design
and then your attacks are colour-coded
they are and it's really great you get
unlike Metroid you get little power-ups
unlike Metroid your power-ups aren't
extra weapons they are extra punching
moves it's like the combination of
Metroid and Street Fighter yeah but
instead of getting you know like the
missiles as an upgrade it's you get you
get the uppercut and that's the upgrade
and the uppercut knocks out the red
blood bricks and that's that's how you
are able to open up more areas to
explore but also like color coding your
attacks helps you remember them because
you know the rooster uppercut as the
name of a move you might not remember
but red right it just makes the game
simpler and I'm gonna call this game
simple and I don't necessarily mean that
as a negative
Bano is its toilet he's called the
toilet he's got a toilet for a head rich
funny one thing I will say a negative
though about like the the artistic
design of this every area mostly looks
and feels the same and they look a
little bit different but the rain temple
doesn't feel much different than the sky
temple just just visually right right
basically you're fighting enemies in a
box and that box might be a different
color yeah
boxes and corridors quart jars shafts
malicious jumping luckily the game the
game does not overstay its welcome I
feel like it wraps up in enough time
where before monotony can really sink in
you're done which again is not
necessarily a negative it's it's a nice
simple easy game yeah see you say simple
I do say it's a simple the controls are
simple but difficult to master i some of
the later levels the later stages I mean
the the number of things you have to
keep track of and the number of button
combinations you have to remember it's
it's maddening like like some of the
hardcore platforming where you got a
like I'll get confused and forget what
button I have to push like oh I got a
you because you got it you got to jump
while switching between different worlds
so that the pillar will disappear so you
land on the other side and I'm juggling
that with it cuz you have to do the
uppercut to get out of the shell but
inside I accidentally hit the button
turns me into a chicken so this guy
turns into a chicken and I fall down to
the lava because there's too many
buttons Jack there's too many things I
have to do in order to jump over this
cliff I just want to make something
really clear you just said instead I hit
the button that turned me into a chicken
which is a real thing that happens in
the game there is a dedicated button to
turn you into a chicken they have
incorporated the combat and the
platforming seamlessly because every
every combat upgrade also doubles as a
platforming element so for example the
rooster uppercut which is really great
at knocking enemies over also gives you
essentially a double jump which is super
fantastic alright I'm going to bring
something up this is not a problem
specifically isolated to guacamelee
think it's problem with a lot of modern
games death has now become complete
meaningless oh look at the dead water
that's water
well inconvenient water you can fall
into the lava as many times as you want
and you just boof you appear right back
onto the last ledge you you started from
in in combat there could be this just
horribly difficult combat thing and you
die and poof you're right back at the
start of that combat section and you
know I I'm sure most people watching
this are fine with that they like that
kind of thing but it takes some of the
accomplishment out of it for me it
doesn't you know I mean there's just no
consequences for failure you just keep
doing it again and again I got through
this time and you don't need to be
graceful to get through you don't need
to be great you just need to get lucky
that once there's a balance with
checkpoints and respawn and how fast can
you get back into the game I like it
but everything's a checkpoint you you
don't go five seconds without the game
saving on you which which I'm okay with
because it makes the game move along
faster it makes you get through the
world smoother and it keeps you in the
action so I think in there there are
some games that abuse this power I think
in a game like this it's perfectly
acceptable okay okay
Hey look a reference oh dear I dislike
the multiplayer there is already so much
happening on-screen where and so the
single-player there's so much happening
on-screen that sometimes your character
gets lost in the shuffle you add in a
second character and they don't zoom out
the camera they don't do anything
different it's just the second character
in the same tiny combat screen
there's so many platforming puzzles that
I felt like I was bumping into you when
we were trying to do the same
platforming levels and so eventually it
just got the point was like okay you do
it I'll stay over here and that's not
very fun
that's seizure inducing ahh I think
that's everything we have written on
here other than men I guess final
thoughts yeah sure yeah so Jack what
what are your final thoughts on I'm
glück of melee I mean some people might
see these as negatives but the game is
very light it's very colorful it's fun
and it's a it's a nice easy play and I
loved it uh all the combat elements
worked flawlessly together so when I
pull off that super combo I knew I did
it and I did it on purpose
some games you're just mashing buttons
this every movement felt purposeful and
I don't know I really I really like it
all right what do you think um it's
pretty simple to tell with me you know
it's a good game because I got to the
ending of the game and I wanted to play
it again it's it you know let's let's go
and I just started right away and I
played through a new game then I got to
the end of that new game and I'm like
I'll go one more time and I'm in the
middle of my third playthrough right now
and any game you've gone through two and
a half times I can't say it's a bad game
yeah I highly recommend guacamelee it's
it's it's Metroid Plus brawler and it's
a formula that works absolutely it's
it's a Metroid brawler and it's not
trying to be anything else
unabashedly simple unabashedly
old-school nice nice do you you think
the kids today could appreciate that
there's horribly fun game I can't see
anybody not but I can see like the Call
of Duty player say those casual [ __ ]
it's not first your third person you
don't have a guns it turn real games
have killed three okay kill what kill
three count Luka who kill three dammit
you haven't played a real game before
idiot
she seems
