Oct 9, 2014
Alien Isolation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOrphBFlDsg
https://twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/523867187271192577
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152452959962634
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedLetterMedia/comments/2jp2vv/previously_recorded_alien_isolation

hi jack hi rich
today we're gonna talk about the new
game alien isolation it's the new the
new horror themed alien games that's
been heralded as a hit by both aliens
fans and critics why I don't know if you
can hear me I'm stranded here on the
station there's something stalking us
something that doesn't belong here and
no it's hunting me
you know her for the for the web rich
what do we do we watch movies right we
watch movies we watch terrible movies
and we have a good time it's it's super
fun we play video games and you know
what we always do for fun have a three
fun time this is the very first time
that this is felt like work yes oh come
on I'm a grown-ass woman
are you telling me I can't walk over a
goddamn food cart alien isolation is a
horror survival game it's one of those
games we're playing it here in the
viewing room together with a lights on
wouldn't give it its full justice so for
the very first time ever we didn't play
the game together well we we we went on
our way to give this game a chance
afternoon at you play it live there dark
room with the lights off and headphones
on headphones just the best chance for
the game to scare you and I have you
know I started the game
and my first reaction was you know this
is kind of neat I'm you're on the ship
then you wake out of the cryo pod okay
they're doing a thing
I'm wearing panties and the very first
thing you do is kind of walk through
your ship die and there's even a little
voiceover that says this ship is a lot
like the Nostromo because you can't be
under this trouble because I was
destroyed
I was just inspecting the Torrens
facilities a well-maintained ship I
realize it's a very similar model to the
Nostromo yes okay so that was super fun
like walking through basically a
facsimile of the Nostromo and the
technology they went full-on with the
the retro 70s vision of the future and
and you start using these computers in
their old CRT monitors and dot-matrix
everything is that matrix yeah Venus
that's okay that felt - that made me
happy I was smiling at that point there
are only two game mechanics to the game
one is the stealth portion which we'll
get yeah we'll get to that the other is
what I'm gonna call spooky WarioWare
this game is full of find the way to
open the door so you got to find the key
to open the door or or you have to go to
the vent because a lot of vents and you
go on the vent you get around to find a
way to open the door or the doors locked
so you have to find a button but to get
that but access to that button you have
to open another door and open that door
you have to thought the guy gives you
the keycard so you can get into that
room so you can get the blowtorch to
open it a completely different door that
finds different type of blowtorch that
opens the door you tried to open in the
first place and all these videogame eat
ropes and they're magnified because the
game is so boring and dull and you're
not doing anything else
I found a pack checking it out there's
not much game do it and the problem I
think that the heart of the problem with
this game is they took a concept that's
three hours worth of game yeah
and producer told them they had to keep
stretching that into twenty and and like
like a like like like some got a dough
or taffy they just keep stretching it
out and out it gets thinner and thinner
and it's all the way pulled out here the
first four hours of the game is nothing
but figuring out how to open doors
yeah which is good because that's what
will happen for the next sixteen hours
of the game is opening door
it should have been portal like it would
have been a fine like $25 portal length
game absolutely but they had to stretch
out to a 20 hour epic experience so
there's not enough there's not enough
substance to pull that off I'm trying to
think
first first for any substance first for
ours is opening doors and walking around
in an empty area and then then you meet
a guy and instantly the isolation part
of the horror game is thrown out the
windows this space station is full of
people okay so what are you guys like
twins oh [ __ ]
okay okay where'd you go are you going
okay okay miss kneecap on you gonna
sneak up on you no no no no no don't go
all right you know what [ __ ]
piggyback ride okay
sorry that I chased you until the alien
killed you I gotta go now
every one of these people will shoot at
you on sight even though you're an
unarmed woman and then the alien finally
gets there the moment you've been
anticipating you're already bored out of
your mind before you get there but
finally you see the alien and it's
comical
yeah big doofy muscled a big goofy
puppet alien and he's looking for you
they they ruin alien is what they've
done in the movie alien you see very
little of alien and you know what if you
pay too close attention to the alien in
the movie you see this is the magic cuz
you see this guy in a costume
absolutely so they did a really good job
of keeping it in shadow keeping it like
really quick cuts of whaling right as
most monster movies do but here you're
supposed to see the alien walk around so
you can move around and its feet don't
quite touch the floor and it's moving
around kind of herky-jerky it looks
beautiful in the cutscenes that's like I
think they want you to feel like the
aliens is invulnerable monster that's
that's stalking you and you have to use
all of your wits to try it out with this
alien but playing it I see just straight
through the AI first of all there's the
random noises you hear in ducks that are
supposed to make you see the think the
aliens like nearby and you just you can
tell right away that that's [ __ ] and
you know kind of get a feeling for what
areas he's gonna pop down in and what
areas he's not you figure out the
difference between the fake noises and
the real noises really quick and so it's
like why do they even keep the fake
noises in there the illusion is broken
yet again that one monster is stalking
you when you can kind of get a sense for
the pattern that he'll pop down look
around and vanish completely and then
randomly and another area Rin he'll pop
down again it doesn't feel like he's
stalking you it feels like it's just
spawn time yeah it's spawn time now the
alien will execute search pattern a to
which means he goes around the thing
doubles back a little bit then goes
around full circle and vanishes no
there'll be times to when when I see the
alien he'll jump up in vent and I like
I've made like a half turn not even a
full turn around just like a quarter
turn and he's charging at me from the
complete other direction
yeah the illusion that there's one alien
stalking you that
quickly nothing breaks a game or a movie
more than seeing the seams in the set
yeah and that's that's all the alien was
anytime that alien moved all you could
see was the matrix you know was the
numbers was the AI
like the first time you see the alien
yeah it's just like oh that's the alien
not oh god I'm pissing my pants it's all
the color animated it that's kind of
neat oh oh oh it's it's a fully 3d
rendered xenomorph much like ones I've
seen in all of the movies that I've seen
when you have warm nostalgic feelings
you're not experiencing horror that's an
amazing point one more thing about
horror though the unknown there's
another thing you're afraid if you're
afraid of the unknown right sure we know
everything about the alien there have
been six movies and they've dissected
its lifecycle and everything you know
what it does you know it hasn't what
there's nothing mysterious about it it's
like oh there's that alien I know the
alien so it works as a survival game
because you really want to get to the
next safe point before dying so you
don't have to replay the game only
because it only works as a survival game
if you have to play it for a web review
show because if it wasn't for this show
I would have turned it off and gonna
have a person all right but that's
survival fails fails completely as a
horror game absolutely completely
stealth it's down what do you have to
say about stuff I liked what alien was
attempting with making it a little
ambiguous on when you were in stealth
because that would be more like real
life okay you would just be crouching
and you would never really know if
someone could see you the problem is
there were some times where like you
said the camera is above the table which
means your character's head is a is
clearly above the table and people walk
right by it I can't see you then there
are times when you are behind a corner
and all of a sudden the alien comes
rushing by and he can see you
feedback is very important for a stealth
game yeah like you have no idea when
you're visible or not really I'm going
back to thief the dark project that's
another first-person self game it's a
then it's okay to make that comparison
there's something in the bottom middle
of the screen called a light gym but the
brighter that gem is the more visible
you are if it's completely bright anyone
can see you it's like like dim then
maybe a guard far away won't notice you
but somebody up close will he'll notice
you and you know dark means you're
practically invisible but I I can see
that I know what condition I'm in I can
plan accordingly
it that works for a game yes a game it's
not realistic I don't know if I'm hidden
or not but as a game I can plan
accordingly and then the way the other
way you know you deal with stealth in
this game you don't have tools it can
you can use or anything you what you do
is you you hide it a closet and you wait
for the bad things to go away you just
you just sit there for five minutes and
eventually the alien or the Android will
just get bored and wander off and that's
the game play sitting there doing
nothing in a closet and then there's the
points in which you need to open doors
which involve a bright thing that comes
up and says press the B button B button
now press the hour button R button now
turn the lever turn the lever that's the
game the game says press this button you
press the button and the game goes yeah
you did it it's it's like assembling
IKEA furniture playing this game go to
this button go to those buttons and do
this combination insert slot a into slot
B that's there's nothing puzzle like
about it it's just point A to point B to
point B do this in point A to point B
Point C point you're not thinking about
how to solve that problem you're pushing
whatever buttons the game tells you you
have to push at that time
and and if you can't figure that out the
handy motion tracker is gonna point you
in the direction of the next button you
have to push
there is nothing scary about knowing
exactly where you have to go at all
times
oh god you remember the minigame that
was just make these two numbers the same
as the numbers down there do you
remember that exciting minigame that was
one of the games one of the games was
match the number make this number equal
to this number you just hit the arrow
until you know the number on the bottom
is 88 then the number on the top 90 for
you to sit the down arrow until the 94
gets down to 88 and they both match
there you go you beat the mini-game
technically that's a game right but rich
Evans people are gonna say it's not
about the game it's this not about the
game the game it's an experience
it's a story aren't you invested in the
story of the game here's how this game
works all right all right Ella and
Amanda Ripley she ends up on the space
station to collect the Nostromo flight
recorder and she gets on the station and
things have gone to help so yeah
initially oh god I didn't know it's hard
to know where to start look I was he sad
you are you start talking about the
story of this game and you just get sad
going going
oh yes race you find that flight
recorder about an hour into the game
yeah the next 18 hours is a series of
going from one room to the next pressing
buttons having nothing to do with the
story of finding out what happened to
your mother
the the people who you start off the
mission with our people you've just met
who your character has no background
with then you go to the base in it
everyone's either trying to kill you or
immediately gets killed by an alien
shortly after meeting you shortly after
meeting you
you have no stakes in anything that
happens in the game besides finding out
what happened to your mother right and
here's the biggest piece of [ __ ]
about this game and won't throw up a
spoiler warning or whatever yeah so
eventually you get to the end or you get
near the end of the game and you finally
find a personal voice message from your
mother to her young daughter yeah and
the voice message says we found an alien
on the ship and we couldn't let the
alien get out so we blew up the ship and
I did it to protect you my daughter it's
um it would have been a moving scene had
I cared at that point so we find out
this information finally your character
has the closure she needs the very next
choice she has to make is whether or not
she is going to blow up the ship to
destroy the aliens and she decides not
to she decides to stop somebody else
from doing that
from doing the thing that her mother did
to protect her she has the choice now to
protect the entire universe from the
aliens and she decides not to oh god
there's your character arc you're a
[ __ ] you you and I often have
disagreements about the state of modern
video yes you like to refer to it as the
dark dystopian future that is games and
I like to think of video games as a
bright happy place because because of
you know indie titles that are out there
the the proliferation of PC gaming to me
the world of video games
happy place until you play the triple-a
title yes this is it this is the death
of the art form is alien isolation yeah
no we turn it on here at the studio and
other people kept on coming in and they
all said the same thing they've come in
to go oh this looks great and it does
it's beautiful to look at it's beautiful
to look at and then they would sit down
and they'd watch us play and we'd play a
mission and every single person had the
exact same response which is is this all
you do in which our response was for 20
hours oh god I am insulted by alien
isolation yeah they had two hours worth
of idea and they did every dirty trick
they could to make it longer miss had to
be long had to be twenty hours and to be
xx Scotty 20 hours before can't be short
kept you five our game always had a real
game can't have a five hour game only
some of the best games ever made of been
about five hours or less there they're like
