Nov 14, 2014
Zelda 2: The Adventure of Link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JJyCmyI5d4Y
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/533452548808933376
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-zelda-ii-the-adventure-of-link/ (archive.ph/QIEPb)

hi rich hi jack what are we doing today
right now there are a lot of games you
can play you have access to every game
ever made the question inevitably comes
up are what games do you need to play
and so we are going to delve into a
classic game today to see if it's one of
those that people need to play in order
to understand the art form
better what game is that Jack we're
gonna play zelda 2 The Adventures of
link oh that's right the game we said
we're going to play in the last episode
and that we already played for this
episode yeah we already played it this
is just like an intro
you need the context Jack you need the
context what's the context so the
context is the the original Zelda which
was a smash hit and and you can even
call the original and RPG The Legend of
Zelda the first game did RPGs different
normally in an RPG you know you kill
enough monsters you gain experience
points and those experience points means
that you're either stronger or faster or
have more defense right The Legend of
Zelda focused on exploration and instead
of experience points you got items and
those items just by having them made you
stronger or made you get to new areas
that game was a huge hit and then in the
second game after the huge hit they did
everything different yes and I can't
wrap my head around why it's like we
came up with this new crazy formula and
it's super successful and everybody's
loved it
let's throw all of that [ __ ] out we're
gonna do some new you want to tie what
what every one of them is ahead dungeons
items that make you stronger and that's
how you progress yeah is the second one
even a Zelda game I mean it is you get
you get new items but they're not really
what makes you stronger the items are
basically almost like keys like you get
the hammer that doesn't help you in the
combat section of the game that only
opens up a new area for you to explore
so Zelda 2 is an action RPG and it's
it's very much an action game it
concentrates on sword fighting
[ __ ] [ __ ] no it's really not easy
dumbass and leveling up cancel again and
we'll get that other attack why I do
like the actual combat itself yeah cuz
normally in a side-scroller you just
expect to mash the attack button over
and over again just this one defense is
is the key incredibly important and more
important than offense when those
Knights are attacking you and they get
attacked hi or that weird ass looking
low attack you you have to be paying
attention to that so you can block right
or you're dead it's very combat focused
which by the way if you're paying
attention to the story of it fits
beautifully well story story was it's
it's kind of the Empire Strikes Back of
Zelda you know you know in Star Wars
they they beat the Empire and then in
the second one they're kind of on the
run from the bad guys after that initial
victory right first they'll do you begin
and the second one his henchmen are all
chasing after you it links links entire
life apparently after winning the first
game has been dodging Ganon's minions
who want to kill him for his blood I
love that I think that's great and you
know me I don't care about the stories
but like I think it's really fantastic
where they're like oh by the way yeah
you won but it's not over you're [ __ ]
here's another odd thing about Zelda -
right what are the stakes what do you
mean I mean there's no impending threat
there's no there's no main villain right
there's no normally in a plot there's
bad guy X wants the thing so he can do
bad thing Y darkling Dark Link is a non
character it's fun you know you face
yourself rich
yourself it's not it's not like a
character that the story's been building
up to the whole time it's just you gonna
fight your evil double known yeah it was
just kind of formed that's neat do you
think that's neat cuz that's the
ultimate trial is fighting yourself
it's an anti-climax it's an anti-climax
there's no that you triumphed over the
great evil I was gonna say I like that
about the world is all of these henchmen
are still around and your your enemy is
just time your enemies fatigue because
you're gonna get tired and get killed
feeling [ __ ] this is clunky [ __ ]
you're gonna get to play a little bit
too rich and you know what I'll laughing
you ah I got it once
damn okay
yes in true old-school gaming fashion
this is a game that does not hold your
hand so there was one point in which you
go to a town and there's a river and I
was in modern video video game mode
where it's like I figured I would have
link but up against the river and maybe
link would stop and say I can't cross
that River yet and then go back right
because that's what happens in modern
video yes but these games don't hold
your hand so what happened was I moved
late link he fell into the river
I lost a life that was really funny and
you know what that taught me a very
valuable lesson don't [ __ ] around
yes I was oh my god oh my god there's a
wolf throwing boomerangs retreat retreat
my god deal with get the red book out of
there
Zelda to the adventures of link is a
very different game and you know there I
that's part that was part of this thing
is like trying to figure out why this
game is different something I came
across was an interview with Miyamoto
the the creator of Zelda and the
designer for the game
he says usually he writes a game and
then as they make it kind of unfold and
they think of new ways to make it
perfect at polishes they start with an
idea and then it expands as they're
working on it the creative juices flow
and hey we can also do this yeah but
with Zelda 2 he said exactly what they
wrote on paper is what's out they didn't
have any polish so you can you can tell
it doesn't have that spark that other
Zelda games out but that doesn't answer
the question the question I have and I
still don't know the answer is why was
Zelda 2 so different on paper in the
first place I have my theory on the
answer and it's a little arty party
[ __ ] so be prepared for arty-farty
[ __ ] something that Nintendo does I
think better than most game companies
Miyamoto especially he's very good at
incorporating gameplay into the theme of
the game teaming is very big with
Miyamoto so in the first Legend of Zelda
game you are a very young boy and you go
on an adventure it has action like
obviously you're fighting monsters and
there are action elements but the camera
is always very far away it's almost like
the action is is not real distance very
childlike right and most of the game is
about exploring I think he actually said
he like explored caves as a young boy
and that was that was the inspiration
whereas Zelda 2 you play as the same
link from The Legend of Zelda but you're
older now and instead of going on a
random adventure because if you look at
the stories of the game right yeah in
the first game you just happen across
empath and she sends if she tells you
what's wrong and you choose to go on an
adventure but in the second game all the
bad guys are still around in there after
you
and you're older and you're stronger
you're a warrior so instead of the focus
on exploration they made the focus on
the combat like in the original Zelda no
towns nobody else to talk to other than
the random old man and the
with fire uh but here you talk to people
and they give you like cryptic clues on
things which by the way fits in with the
theme of getting older yeah yeah again
I'm gonna I'm gonna get arty with Miam
with Miyamoto I think that's an okay
thing to do cuz he likes doing weird
thing he does but so think about this
right in the first game you're a child
yeah though it's just you alone in the
world it's great right as you get older
you have to talk with other adults and
what do the adults do in zel the - they
give you jobs this is the first this is
the introduction of the fetch quests in
this held a series but but again like
you're older you have stuff to do you
have responsibilities you have jobs to
do in order to progress which I think
this was like this you can see you can
kind of see the sketches where he's like
Oh wouldn't it be cool like you're older
now we need to find a way to give you
jobs let's see if we can polish this up
later he was just never polished it let
the fun but I think it was supposed to
lack the fun it was supposed to be the
mature version of Ling yes
that's some of the stuff that I
appreciated about the game was the
general theming of a link getting older
you know if that really is the theme
that does explain the lady who restores
your health I mean doesn't it
the scantily clad lady who invites you
into her home please let me help you
that's wait you know what that was weird
but you get it she's the she's the town
of Heuer yeah she's the healer she's the
healer but then it gets weirder when the
old woman invites you in hey hey when
you're 16 you don't pass up any
opportunities she's experienced let link
the Dragon Slayer death bubbles the
death bubbles though hit you in the
blood that hurts extra I see I don't
hate this game it works well enough I
mean it's not it's not a classic like
the original one is it's not a classic
like a Link to the Past is right it's
not a classic like Wind Waker it's not a
classic like one way classic classic
like Ocarina of Time is it's just a
decent game I like to think about like
this era of Nintendo is like the magical
time like before the internet so it's
like you just had to figure it out on
your own and if you were clever enough
you could do it but there were a couple
instances specifically what was it was
the second palace the lady in the second
town needed a mirror that mirror was
underneath a table in the village no
hint that that would be underneath the
table no no indication that you could
even search under a table that's the
real thing yeah if she even said I lost
the mirror under the table under things
or it's like I think I think I was in
this house and then you would maybe have
some incentive to just randomly press
buttons in the house but nothing yeah
there's nothing and that is unacceptable
as far as I'm concerned
don't you like figuring things out on
your own I do but if you if if there's
no clues you can't solve the mystery
Maura picked it up kinda punch the one
button picks things on so that must not
be imagined that's a light that's not
health
see we should be opening for something
special whatever it is we absolutely
should
is stab it you stab it that's how you
pick it up look okay okay I guess I have
a key nice I have to stab this key here
but here's the question
we're to the point Zelda 2 is a classic
game if you are a gamer or if someone is
like into gaming and you know wants to
find out the roots of gaming is zelbel
to a game they need to play my my
response to that is I think the premise
is a little bit flawed I don't know that
there are any games that anybody should
have to play but you know like in movies
right like everyone needs to see Citizen
Kane you might not like it
but you need to see it if you are a
movie buff right if you are a video
gamer that's a thing there are games
that you need to play I feel to have a
greater understanding of the art world
video games are so diverse there's so
many different types of games different
types of experiences you can have with a
game I don't know that there's a
linearly stuff thing we have to play
this just to understand this I don't I
don't know what games work that way if
someone is hungry for gaming knowledge
would you ever recommend Zelda 2 only
only as a historical oddity I think I
think it does deserve some recognition
just for being the oddball Zelda game
yeah it really does it does and maybe if
you put it into the arty party context
you'll enjoy it more
of course that's just stuff I'm making
them that's stuff you're making up and I
got but listening to it I think it fits
it's a it's an excellent theory games
games are art and there are game
designers that try to fix themes and
stories within the gameplay
and that should be preserved and I think
they were trying for something so
actually I might be talking myself into
recommending this
