Sep 10, 2014
Invisible Inc. (Early Access)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-BnU2AToU8
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/509839336909455360
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152370167347634
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-invisible-inc-early-access/ (archive.ph/xvfO5)

Hello, Jack
all right how are we doing today
I don't know if you're farting or
falling do you
welcome back operator Incognito's
picking up some strange patterns in the
global market
something that people should know about
you you love XCOM ID or ex-communist and
XCOM has a grid-based movement system
and is a tactical turn-based game one of
the very first games you wanted us to do
for this show was the Banner Saga
which has grid-based movement and
tactical combat elements and and now it
was your choice of choosing once again
for what we were going to do for an
episode and you chose invisible ink
which has grid-based movement and
tactical turn-based combat you know what
it is because the original XCOM came out
like 15 years ago I don't know whatever
was mid midnight came out mid 90s and
it's been pretty much dead since then
that kind of grid based turn-based
combat kind of thing and now with the
success of the XCOM remake it's it's
kind of revived a bit so I'm getting in
while I can before it goes away again
closed door you know what this is it's a
politeness simulator you just close the
door behind you like invisible ink is
the the new game from clean cry click
like lobe plum entertainment they are
the same people who brought us mark of
the ninja don't starve and the two shank
games invisibly it's like an espionage
themed game and you have a couple of
agents and they have to break into a
corporate building and they steal
corporate secrets or or new technology
and and then they have to get out a lot
and it's turn-based game where you know
you move your eyes one by one then the
computer takes a turn and you have to
avoid being detected by the Roman guards
or the security systems yes and you have
you have certain abilities like you can
hack security cameras you can maneuver
around guards or incapacitate guards
the longer you play in one level the
harder it becomes they have the alarm
which by the way nitpicky this is told
nitpicky [ __ ] this is total nitpicky
[ __ ] but if it's an intruder alarm
that gets more intense the longer that
you're in there don't they already know
that you're in there yes so why aren't
they on full alert from the beginning
because game be exactly obviously to me
they don't quite know how to balance it
yet I think I think they're still
working on that I don't know I have some
issues with the difficulty of the game a
scale of easy normal hard like where
would you rank the difficulty of this
game ridiculous yes the game is hard as
balls well it's a roguelike
so when you start off you you have
minimal equipment you're the problem
it's a problem my mind is the alarm
system it goes up too fast every 5 turns
something makes the level harder like
like an alarm one more cameras come on
that's easy enough to deal with at alarm
to the things you have to hack their
their firewalls go up making it harder
to hack them and then after that it gets
nuts because that's when guards start
pouring out of the elevators there is a
great cost-benefit analysis because the
more time you spend exploring every
little looking cranny of this randomly
generated floor the more cash you could
get but the longer you stay there the
more guards coming so it's it's finding
that balance of are you just gonna go
for the objective and run out or are you
gonna go that that's safe there's a safe
but it's two doors away and there's a
Roman guard maybe I can sneak in there
the way the levels work you don't know
where anything is right you can start a
level and start roaming your guys to the
to the right or maybe split them up and
go to the right or left and then by the
time you get to alarm level 3 you
haven't found anything but like a safe
and it turns out like the eggs
it and the objective all were north so
then then you have to try and make your
way to the exit while dodging 18 guards
it's an empty room
it really is there's literally I think
they need to tweak things I think they
either need to be a little bit more
generous with the alarm it's only like
it goes up every five turns it should
probably be seven maybe even eight or
give me a vague idea of where I need to
go you know that would be a good idea
because like I guess if you were a spy
you'd have some intelligence before yeah
you wouldn't go in completely blind
unless you were desperate I guess but
we'll drop you here that we think the
safe is in this area yeah that would be
a smart idea but that's actually
something that can change because this
is something that is something that
we've never done on the show before and
it's something that I generally stay
away from this is an early access game
you buy the game and it's not quite done
yet early access discussion well it's
it's it's very much not done is the
story it's like it's got a story mode
but there's there's no story there it's
just you got 72 hours to prepare for the
final mission and that just means going
through and getting money and upgrading
your characters and and I got to the
final mission actually last night
via a screen comes up that actually
tells you this is not the real final
mission I usually try to stay away from
early access games because it's not done
yet and I like to wait until there is a
full presentation but the problem is the
problem for me is by the time the game
comes out usually all of the hype is
down you know like everyone who's wanted
to play it has already played it they're
no longer talking about it and so
because I like to be a part of the
game's conversation I can't talk about
it with them so I just say [ __ ] well
here's here's the thing though Jack if
when you care what the hype is
as long as you're playing a finished
game that you enjoy do you really care
if there's a buzz that matters that
change anything it only matters it only
matters when it comes to the
conversation that I have with other
people with things like Kickstarter and
early access independent publishers can
do creative things again like like I
think we both agree that invisible ink
is a new idea it's something that hasn't
been done before I agree and that's
because of [ __ ] like early access they
get that money early that can go into
them making the actual game they want to
make and they don't have to worry about
a publishers as we're not going to fund
this we'll we'll fund this kind of thing
that we think will make X amount of
dollars but we're not going to fund this
this unproven untested espionage
turn-based stealth idea I don't I don't
dislike the idea of early access I
dislike the ubiquity is that a word
it has turned from something that should
be able to give creative people the
means to finish something and has ended
into a marketing strategy that now
because it's everywhere I don't give a
[ __ ] about it anymore okay that's a dumb
reason is it them it's a dumb reason
sick early access Kickstarter or not not
every game is going to work
not every creative idea is gonna pay off
there's gonna be some failures but with
these tools early access and Kickstarter
we've gotten some good [ __ ] I'm coming
off on early access more negatively than
I would like okay because in reality I
don't give a [ __ ] I normally cuz
normally I don't do it that's my that's
my rule I just wait till the game is
done then don't play it live the early
build you wanted to do it for the show
that's work jack this is work now that
now that work is done you can stop
playing the game and wait till it's done
I don't want to it's good this is such a
weird argument it is a weird argument
we've been talking about this for too
long way too long here's the real thing
that bothers me about early access is
invisible links pretty good I liked it
that'll segue instead of what I think
about it um I was really prepared not to
like this game because it's not my usual
kind of thing I I think you know about
me I like the jump in in the action just
punch people in the face you're very
much in our Katie kind of gamer yes I am
and I so I enjoy more action-oriented
games and this is a game that makes you
really slow down you have to know what
you're doing you have to think about
what you're doing and you also need to
be really polite make sure you close
that door by always close the door
damnit they go away well I guess nothing
was there the door opened I saw a guy
but now the doors closed so the guy must
be gone and it took me it took me days
before I got comfortable I'm when I
first started I was completely [ __ ]
helpless I I couldn't get past the
easier levels two-thirds of the time but
but you learn the game you you you you
learn how to hide more effectively you
learn you learn that the guards
peripheral vision is really bad and that
you can just you can hide right up
against the door and they'll walk
through and they won't see you oh I
don't have a pickpocket thing yet Oh
even though you're standing right next
to him and like you were breathing on
his neck because you were on a different
tile you can't see this game is full of
really tense moments this this game
managed to make a turn-based game
nail-biting yes it's very tense I was
like I was debating whether I liked the
game or not because it is very slow and
they're apart you know like when you're
learning and you're dying a lot it can
feel very boring just because it doesn't
feel like you're accomplishing anything
goes that first maybe two three hours
that I played I didn't feel like I was
learning or accomplishing anything but
then you find the flow and so the
biggest marker for me for whether or not
I like a game is its escapism value and
it's very it's a terrible way to write
things because it's all it's all on you
right it's all if ether roll if that's
even a word
does the game make me feel something you
know and whether that's as simple as in
Super Meat Boy I feel like I'm jumping
on walls right great escapism value the
game makes me feel tense and that's a
good thing it's it's the most stressful
turn-based game I've ever played you can
sit back and take as much time as you
want and have a sip drink while you're
thinking about your next move but this
game so stressful so stressful so I get
a couple of levels in and I'm I'm doing
good I'm doing good I got some
half-decent equipment and then oh no
there's a guard I didn't know about
oh no he sees me okay uh what am I gonna
do well maybe I can do nothing no no I'm
dead I lost everything I lost all of my
experience all my equipment I'm [ __ ]
and I turn the game off and discuss but
an hour later I'll come back I'm gonna
do it again and that's that's the sign
of a good game right there when you keep
wanting to play it yes yeah when you
when you are thinking about the game
when the game is turned off when you are
thinking about different ways you could
handle a situation like oh maybe I can
try this as soon as Deckard as soon as I
got Deckard's pickpocket ability and you
realize that you can stay in cover our
guard will come sneak up behind a guard
pick his pocket then go right back into
cover so so you can have that key card
without knocking a guard out you feel
really sneaky it makes you feel like a
sneaky little spy
it needs some polish I do think they
need to tweak the difficulty but there
are the makings of a great game once you
get it like the magical plan then things
fall apart what you need to do is to say
[ __ ] it go in with your dick swing in
and hope that no one notices you one of
my big problems with a game that I don't
think they're going to tweak is what do
you call this like top-down isometric
right where but you only get four camera
angles and none of the hallways line up
with the camera angles and so like
you'll get in these situations and I we
ran into one when we were playing where
we couldn't really see where we were
going no matter which camera angle we
went and this one was too far to the
left and this one was too far to the
right
yeah I mean maybe I'm just used to
isometric games but III didn't have any
issues with not being able to see oh
[ __ ]
a bigger issue with me and and and
something that probably will be adjusted
with with updates I didn't see a way to
change hotkeys to configure the keyboard
controls or configure anything there's
there's no reason a PC game should not
have configurable controls that's some
console [ __ ] that [ __ ] is console y'all
I love that that's so cartoony the lines
the little footstep lines you know it's
nice wrap-up time um so like I think our
feelings are pretty clear out there yeah
I think they're similar we think it's
difficult but overall we like the game
and there's a lot of potential there so
you would recommend I would recommend
yep I would also recommend it but maybe
wait until the full release as I have
strong feelings on early access yeah I I
mean it I think it needs some difficulty
tweaking I I could stand to see a few
more characters maybe a few more hacking
tools they could in the game but fun I
think
invisible ink has the foundation of the
formula correct for hard but fair
or they could [ __ ] it up who knows so
like fun spy game I don't necessarily
believe it anytime you go invisible rich
rich Evans rich Evans
