Apr 15, 2014
Risk of Rain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lkC-e8ELAt0
https://www.twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/456060802361872385
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152074405607634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-risk-of-rain (archive.ph/Z0Kcg)

hi I'm rich and I'm Jack and today I'm
previously recorded we're playing risk
of rain yeah
risk of rain is a roguelike action game
it's currently only available for
Windows you play as this little guy and
your mission is to find the teleporter
on every level you fight monsters
collect power-ups and most importantly
you just try not to die
okay jack so I think we have played
enough of risk of rain to to give a good
first impression our opinions on the
game what what did you think not knowing
much about the game I called it a
procedurally generated roguelike in the
action platformer and the levels aren't
procedurally generated they're just kind
of randomized yeah so it's a randomized
roguelike in the action game what are
those things also the crew they're
perfect
they look like shredders I'm being
chased by eight shredders okay you need
to use another device I think the only
thing that's really random eyes are like
the item placements yeah the chest the
item placements the the warp entrances
like the teleport yeah the teleporter is
the Cheshire trash the the shrine
thingamajigger these are things you can
buy what is it I think that's a good
question I've no idea what it is I can
buy it I'll buy it there's three things
you know why would they give you three
things and not tell you what any of them
do I have to make a choice between I
don't know I don't know and I really
just have no idea see this is this is
one of my issues with the game alright
you know we got this digitally there is
no manual and we didn't look up a game
FAQ you'll find like the three items and
you can only buy one of them you don't
know what any of them do so what's the
point in giving you a choice what is it
too much to ask to walk over the item
and have a little box that comes up it
says the ukulele causes a slight chance
for electric bullets so I know oh that's
what that does the con to that is the
game is all about slow exploration and
so doesn't it fit well with the theming
that you don't really know what this
thing does but maybe I'll use it and
then it comes with a very distinct
little piece of pixel art and so you'll
know maybe maybe you'll figure out in
the
future what it does and then you'll know
what that thing does it doesn't that
give you a little sense of
accomplishment that only works to learn
what everything does right then on every
playthrough after that that effect has
lost you yeah but then but then you have
the joy of learning I'm gonna make an
offer and I got what does that do I
don't know
Wow
oh I took fall damage by the way I think
it was a purposeful move I think that
purposeful move on the game designers
part and I don't necessarily mine it cuz
it's a roguelike you're gonna be playing
it over and over again if you're playing
it at all
yeah you're supposed to play this and
beat the boss over and over again to
unlock different characters to unlock
different items and then you play it
again with a different character you get
a slightly different experience and
that's what you do the joy the joy of
unlocking stuff in a row guys it just
tickle it tickles that part of your
brain where you want to make sure all
your cards are straight this game has a
lot of flaws for me but I'm in love with
it I thought I thought it was really
cute and really engaging well would you
would you say one of the flaws is the
the difficulty curve there is not so
much a difficulty curve as there is a
difficulty wall yeah yeah well there's a
difficulty wall but once you get over
the wall you're it's clear sailing the
way that you deal with your enemies can
sometimes feel a little cheap I think we
ran into this a lot when we were playing
is like bosses who couldn't get down
from ledges and so you could find a
perch and just fire you know
that's that's that's the trade-off with
the randomly generated stuff though
right that you're gonna run into
somebody exploit like that over there
but even like even when when we got to
the end boss you you were fighting the N
boss and he recycled the same three four
attacks every couple of minutes there's
a difficult boss and then there's just
doing the same thing for 40 minutes this
is this is where I run away from the
beams this is where I dodged and this is
where I turn around and shoot and this
is where I run again you're just you're
doing it over and over and over and you
just this ridiculously long health bar
is just slowly going down and I think
that's that's the biggest downfall of
the game you either feel kind of cheap
because you found an exploit to beat the
boss or you're dead and you know we
eventually we played a mostly on the
easy difficulty for the most part way to
play normal and we never really got over
the hump on normal yeah it's possible
we're just [ __ ] and normal plays
great it's very possible that we're
[ __ ] so I think we need to reaffirm
here that no this is just a first
impression absolutely we're not get the
full game yeah yeah oh you guys are
gonna go [ __ ] down now downtown to do
the ground town I feel like we're being
harsh on the game we are because it was
really enjoyable oh [ __ ] everything's
[ __ ]
the enemies and their attacks were so
beautiful oh wow that's a cool monster
oh you can go up more ah jellyfish land
fish land jelly that's adorable I better
run away from it
hey how about some more enemies I don't
know just because of our age and our
generation and growing up with a
Nintendo but isn't isn't pixel art just
the best thing look round body yellow
head one unit one just one little yellow
pixel that's all I do wonder like what
you know my character is supposed to
look like it's just an orange shirt
without with a white face that's all I
see it really is charming oh and you can
tell that whoever designed that game had
this singular vision and they nailed it
you can't really tell what things are
but everything has a very distinct look
and it's all in the same artstyle and
yeah the pros and cons of this art style
is it's interesting enough on its own
where it draws you in but at the same
time it's really hard to know what
things are you don't need to know what
things are you need to know this bad
guide frankly but you know like with a
game with so little explanation being
able to easily identify things is really
important I think not you shoot at it
there are times when - when things are
so chaotic on the screen your your this
little tiny pixel man I couldn't see
where I was and all of the there's coins
flying around and you're one pixel I
don't know where the [ __ ] I am I'm just
holding down the trigger button and
moving and hoping everything's fine
there's a dinosaur man
if we're gonna harm ya and again we
heart blubbing live because we enjoy the
game yes jumping it really sucked moving
in general felt like you were moving
through molasses because your character
move so slow and the jump was agonizing
oh no how are you oh no oh [ __ ] oh [ __ ]
oh oh my [ __ ] well the jump was a slug
jump you know and so like that was a
real if we're getting nitpicky that was
a real sticking okay okay I did not like
care for the movement
jellyfish jellyfish okay and I just
mentioned that you know it's a good game
when you make the struggling noise when
your character does something did you
hear what I just did yeah
when he was jumping I love that but the
cleaners the question though how how
long would it take for it to get old I
could see putting in like a solid 10 20
hours and then just being over and then
you'll never touch they never touch
again a lot of good in the game some
nitpicky bad stuff but it's a cheap
short game for $10 I do not regret the
purchase at all it's a little cute pixel
art game or your 3d man and it's a
roguelike and you could play it over and
over that's great yeah
so you recommend I would recommend it
what little we play them and there's a
lot of aspects of the game we just
missed yeah just playing it for a couple
hours and we enjoyed it a lot yeah
absolutely and but I'm by it with the
soundtrack that's good I think that's
good do we need like an outro or do you
think there's an outro in there I don't
know I don't know if there's an outro in
there I'm an ending I mean is there a
good way to
