Aug 22, 2014
Mario Kart 8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_lDMA5yYdrA
https://www.twitter.com/PreviouslyRec/status/502838111953379332
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152330555097634
http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-mario-kart-8/ (archive.ph/wooe8)

all right so we're here to talk about
Mario Kart 8 yeah the new Mario Kart
game in the series of Mario Kart games
from Nintendo who makes a lot of Mario
games starring Mario
you
in general Mario Kart is a racing game
yes you play as different characters
from the Mario universe and you go kart
race
there's motorcycles there's giant eggs
turtle shells and all matter of crazy
vehicles you can drive and one of the
things that sets apart a Mario Kart game
from say just a generic racing game is
is power-ups you get little items that
you can use to boost your speed or throw
at other characters and there's kind of
like a battle element to the kart racing
ok well so what what separates Mario
Kart from any other racing game racing
games that were around when Mario came
out I mean they didn't have much
character they didn't have much
personality it's just it's just the
Sprint car or the Corvette and it drives
around a road it drives around other
generic Corvettes or sprint cars Mario
Kart kind of invented the go kart
sub-genre and what it added was an
element of fun and personality oh my
[ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ] they
concentrated on interacting with each
other rather than just raising no one
you go [ __ ] yourself you there now I
have a question for you jack is mario
kart a happy fun game or is it a
frustrating experience in human misery
yes because because because the Mario
Kart games for me have the fuck-you
factor you're going along you're
enjoying yourself you're in first place
you're skidding along and then up from
behind here comes this giant blue shell
of death that you can't avoid and it
just it [ __ ] your day goes right up
your tailpipe and [ __ ] you and the
[ __ ] in second place passes you up
okay in terms of of Mario Kart being a
party game where you have people you
know together I could see that being
just kind of a fun experience you know
your friend not you with the show haha I
got you all you jerk I'll get you next
time but it punishes skill the the good
drivers who's getting out ahead based on
his driving skill gets [ __ ] by a shell
it gets [ __ ] by a star gets [ __ ] by
lightning yes in in general that's true
and that a net for me it makes the Mario
Kart games extremely frustrating to play
at times absolutely absolutely the the
only upswing to that is what what mario
kart is trying to accomplish is keeping
groups of people together because the
more you race together the more you do
get that back and forth i you hit me
with a red shell [ __ ] you i'll hit you
with a green shell and you get that
laughing because you're all next to each
other it's a friendly competition and so
Nintendo's really focused on keeping
players close in the race so the further
back you are the better power-ups you
get so you can move in front and the
more in front you are the worst
power-ups you get so hopefully someone
behind you will kind of keep you
together Mario Mario Kart wants to keep
you together I think we should we should
note right now then the major reason you
wanted to do Mario Kart is because
you're some kind of world class Mario
Kart prodigy
you
I am so good at Mario Kart I have
trouble playing with the normal people I
have a similar problem with peckmon okay
there's a game for the Gamecube called
pac-man horses and and you know you have
four players three people have the
regular GameCube controller and they're
playing as ghosts and then the fourth
player has the Gameboy hooked up into
the Gamecube and they play as pac-man on
the screen oh that's me and I don't when
I play this game with other people
everyone else is just completely
miserable and every now and then I just
have to throttle it back
oops you got me or or everyone's just
gonna have a horrible time but you're
pretending to good at the game and then
so I have to hold bag one of the things
that really stuck out to me was we were
playing as a group and when everyone
when I wasn't playing everyone was
having a great time
oh wow wow [ __ ] and then I swap in
Oh God so many goddamn bananas on course
how does it feel to have concrete proof
that you're a killjoy it's it's tough
but it just means that I'm really great
at Mario Kart this is one of the things
I like the best about Mario Kart 8 is
its online presence because I can go
online and race against a group of 12
other people and they'll be good because
they'll be committed like I'm committed
and so it's an actual challenge this
whole episode is just so you can brag
that's so sad it's not no but you know
having that challenging and like I like
I said I think grouping people together
is what makes a party game good because
if someone gets too far in front no one
else cares everyone you want to be
together you want to have a sense that
you can win you want to have a sense
that you could lose and that was some of
our best races or when you and I were
neck-and-neck and just one more powerup
away you could feel there was barely
caching at the finish line kind of stuff
exactly there was excitement you get you
get shelled right before you cross the
finish line
or the person goes ahead of him oh that
was super lucky that was super super
lucky what are you in a mushroom yeah I
got a mushroom just in the last moment
it's just at the very last second blue
bar ah so I think a lot of people will
be crying foul with Mario Kart 8 because
once again Nintendo has gone back to the
well it's the 8th in the series they've
remade Mario Kart again do we need more
Mario Kart is this just more of the same
sure well you know I think I think
comparing it to something like Call of
Duty or you know like Assassin's Creed
you know they're gonna make Assassin's
Creed sequels from now until eternity oh
yeah but the big difference is they
don't make a Mario Kart game every year
in fact they only make one Mario Kart
game per system it's not the biannual
update yes
what does Mario Kart 8 do that's that's
really different they got the gravity
wheels and you can drive upside down now
but it's still the same racing mechanics
you had before just the gimmick is
you're upside-down and then they look I
guess technically they added it in the
DS version but I'm not talking about the
handhelds but there's also the glider
yeah which I mean it doesn't really it
doesn't revolutionize Mario Kart the the
only thing that paranoid is in there for
is to look cool like like the gravity
wheels yeah exactly it's just in there
to look cool which I by the way I agree
it is really neat you go off a jump and
you glide it's like yeah but maybe you
rock and roll but it does not
fundamentally change the game in any
significant way
it's amanoot change to the mario kart
formula in fact it's no change to mario
kart formula because the camera follows
it so from your perspective you are not
riding on it all right I have to admit
writing on a mobius strip course is neat
it fills me with childlike excitement
cuz like if you've ever seen kids like
do a pretend car race they're not just
on a track they're riding on the walls
or jumping off couches it is Mario Kart
8 is exactly how ridiculous Mario Kart
should be 8 to me it just it's
incremental gimmicks laird up on the old
game yes now Jack Jack this this doesn't
mean the game isn't fun I'm not saying
that Mario Kart 8 is basically a
polished version of Mario Kart 64 they
all kind of are there they're a 3d go
kart racing game we can accuse Nintendo
beating a dead horse but they beat it
with such a flair and with such a Polish
that I'm kind of okay with my mind the
major changed the major gameplay
innovation from Mario Kart 8 is it
doesn't take you as long to get back on
the course once you fall off
nikitos response time is a revolution
that one simple change is better than
any other gimmick they add it into the
game you know we should talk about Mario
Kart 8 has the most [ __ ] battle mode
ever oh god yeah in battle mode it's
it's basically the same game except for
instead of racing you have three
balloons and if you hit someone with a
powerup or if they skid or something
they lose a balloon and whoever loses
their balloons first loses
that's an awkward way to put it but yes
that's what you get yeah good so that
for the previous Mario cards we played
with some of those there's an arena
there's a hole they they have like
custom built specifically for the versus
mode arenas in Mario Kart 8 they just
reuse tracks and it's not like a track
themed battle arena it's just a track
it's the full track so you just ride
around the track and hope you bump into
someone for the longest time we were on
the opposite ends of the track and
you're you're on this side I'm on this
side we're doing like this where are you
I don't know where are you where are you
I don't know I don't see you okay I
don't know where you are
it was no fun at all no I want some DLC
free DLC Nintendo I want an expansion
where we get battle arenas
everything looks great just a polished
look the controls as a seasoned mario
kart player the controls have never been
tighter no no no as more of a casual
Mario Kart player how'd it like how do
you think the games stack up alright um
I'm not that big a fan of Mario Kart 8
now that's not the same thing as I hate
I know the internet likes to me you know
you hate it more than anything you've
ever hated or you absolutely love it
it's a fine game but I mean it's
basically just incrementally gimmicks it
is it's gimmicks away from Mario Kart
Double Dash and just in my personal
opinion Double Dash felt like it had the
tighter controls double-double - when we
played that it just everything clicked
in my head oh this this feels right less
less so an 8 hmm alright the controls of
Double Dash outweigh the the extra
flashy gimmicks of eight the shininess
shininess of eight five that's fair
that's fair double dash is a great game
so so I mean ultimately I guess the
final point is I would recommend Mario
Kart 8 um if you have double dash you
don't need it and it's it's not a system
seller if you have a Wii U a [ __ ]
course get Mario Kart you know exactly
what you're getting and it's the bright
shiny version of that the addition of
really great online play and greater
versus customization like we played a
couple races where we played with no
items and I really I dug the [ __ ] out of
it just cuz solid racing and um there
was nothing to stop you the greater
question is is it a system seller and I
can tell you it was for me like when
Mario Kart 8 came out I bought a wii u
okay it's it's a fun game I I would not
rush out to buy a system for it
eventually eventually someday Nintendo
might get to the point where there's
there's enough little games where I
might want to get away you I did want to
do this all
episode just to write about how good I
have at Mario Kart I know that might be
sad
