May 14, 2014
The Banner Saga
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6PAi6QXOx8
https://www.twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/466910114310393856
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152132144592634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-the-banner-saga (archive.ph/VvgOW)
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedLetterMedia/comments/25mbk3/prerec_the_banner_saga

hi rich hi jack should we do the intro
we kind of think yeah this is the intro
for this episode we played the Banner
Saga
and the Banner Saga is an RPG ish kind
of turn-based strategy hiking game done
with some beautiful animation and art
style then it was made by some
ex-members of Bioware in the Banner Saga
you wander around with a group of fellow
Viking ish people and you're trying to
do something apparently maybe the main
gameplay element for the Banner Saga is
this kind of turn-based strategy RPG ish
things it reminds me a lot of old
tabletop games where you have to move
your characters a certain number of
movement points and then attack and
defend and then the other half is I
think something we dubbed Oregon Trail
with Vikings
and then there's also a lot of talking
to people and and dialogue trees Eric
Stewart of strand I managed the
governor's business Reuben were obon No
yes we're Rubin is our name Obon I sure
one Hut then it is it is fine by me that
governor tells me you'll be giving us a
hand
my
I hate hate dialogue really I do this is
this is the dumbest thing in the world
what's wrong with dialog trees and want
to fight people I can talk to people in
real life but but their dialogue trees
that are mostly meaningless we decided
to kind of try out different dialogue
trees yeah and no matter which way we
took we got to the same point and the
person said the same stuff there no
battle so like the whole point of the
game is like you know these dialogue
trees change your experiences utter
[ __ ] mm-hmm human mute fergan and
Ergun that's when we had to slaughter
the village of innocent people so they
would join our team that's back and we
lost that weight loss and and by the way
then the text said that they killed
Mergen and Ergun but they were still
there I'm not sure the text said like I
really look back in the footage but I'm
pretty sure it said we killed Hogan and
Dogon but then later they're still in
the party
what was good about the first two mass
effects before the third one turned the
entire series into a funeral march was
just the characterization the characters
in Mass Effect were very strong is the
dialogue tree was just nice to explore
these characters in a way that felt like
a natural conversation the Banner Saga
doesn't have interesting characters so
at the dialogue trees it doesn't feel
like you're getting the know people it
just feels like they're giving you some
dry exposition this chieftain meant to
kill me and he's not
first a dozen families in the city would
gladly take my chair this one had men
waylaying merchants both north and south
of the city we kept waiting for the
story to get interesting because that
was kind of a selling point of this game
is like the epic tale saga
it's the Banner Saga it's basically
every hackneyed fantasy trope yeah with
no main character and no story it's
bland of the Rings nailed it nailed it
nailed it
here's my problem with the game my main
problem with theme we played eight hours
there's it doesn't feel like the plot
started yet yeah then there is it feels
like you're just wandering around
aimlessly I don't think it feels like it
is you are
we called this jokingly Oregon Trail but
I think Oregon Trail had more of a plot
than this game because we knew we were
going to Oregon
I want to say the first three hours was
nothing but tutorials ah but then things
like losing or gaining people we didn't
figure that out until the 7 hour mark
when we hit our first war new mechanic
introduced ten hours into the game just
what you want right all right when you
come across more enemies than your party
can handle you'll engage in war give
your army orders to fit the situation
but prepared to get your own hands dirty
to God is this gonna get our TSE uh I
don't know but it looks like our
fighters might actually do something
yeah sir we're gonna be okay and text
prompts we're gonna tell people what
today it's gonna be fairly boring charge
[ __ ] why are we in the middle of
her pressing it shouldn't be like a line
at the other end that we're charging how
do we get surrounded all of a sudden
you're really bad at war but we never
see the war or the people or the people
in the war and we have no control over
show don't tell show don't tell show me
these people and show me them dying or
living something give me something to
care about in this game give me a
cost-benefit analysis yeah maybe if I
know I have to get like a large army of
people to the other end so they can
fight in a huge battle that will save
the earth and I need these people for
that reason that would be something like
there's a morale meter for your for your
convoy we don't know what it does six
hours in you should you should
understand these things I don't think
that's too much ask yeah yeah this is
your battle now rich don't [ __ ] it up
what do we do oh my um got one [ __ ] over
there just by himself you got a big [ __ ]
and you got you got three little [ __ ]
over there
how did you feel about the actual
turn-based battles you've got a little
army on one side and then the enemy's
got an army on the other you've got an
armor stats and a health stat you get to
choose to attack either an enemy's armor
or his health if you attack his armor
you can take off more health later but
if you attack as health the more healthy
losses the weaker he gets the less
strength his attacks because health is
tied to your power yeah the more health
you have the harder you hit I was okay
with them did you hate them I did see I
love turn-based strategy turn-based
combat isn't necessarily immersive you
know in fact it's it's it's basically
you're playing an Excel spreadsheet but
you're into the character and you're
into the world in this game we didn't
know who the characters were we didn't
know what they were doing and we there
were no consequences to winning or
losing battles so that's why we don't
care about learning the combat system
what what what bothers me about though
the the leveling up is this characters
level up it's not like a group level up
it's their individual kills your
characters gain points that you can add
to attack or defend by killing people
yes so if if snarl the 15-foot Viking
monster gets 15 kills it really gets
leveled up but your weaker party members
are never going to get the kills and so
that means your strong characters will
get stronger and your weak characters
will stay weaker yes and that means for
that that makes for not fun play okay
fun play game Dave is this we won't stop
long okay
see no one else there's any points oh
you see cesium look at us know it like a
fake okay so I want my son look away now
watch him work out I'll just be like oh
the animation is [ __ ] great it isn't
it's very pretty it's a very pretty dull
game up in the art direction in this
game superb superb I think that's it
this was a game made by artists and I
just didn't think to hire a writer yeah
it's the Todd McFarlane of video games
that's - now I'm calling it rich Evans
thinking I'm I'm the analogy master you
are the zing and King how do they put on
shirts do they all have button-up shirts
that's a good question that's very fun
so we're gonna pay attention to that
down well say no if you don't think I'm
not sure how did you get his shirt on
maybe it sits in the back and Ellen can
you zip me up
I don't despise this game as much as you
do I despise this game I just I I I'm I
think turn-based battles are fun they're
enjoyable they're not the most fun I've
ever had I would take X come on any
unknown over this any day of the week
far as battles go but the battles are
decent it's the the art is beautiful but
the characters I just don't give a [ __ ]
about any of these characters so so the
question is whether or not you would
have recommend this game day and and I'm
curious would you recommend this because
I know you wouldn't I was at least say
you would not recommend this I will not
recommend this game to anyone
I would I would rather pay the $25 to
get a book of the art and work at the
art I see I not for $25 not really not
for $25 so we're gonna put a value on
this game get it on sale for eight
someday get it on sale Freight and
you'll be thrilled by the beautifulness
of the art
don't waste your time your time is more
valuable than this game everyone the
internet like if $8 is that valuable to
you then no but it's a Tamilian get on
sale $8 isn't that valuable we spent six
seven hours playing this game our six or
seven hours was worth more
this game was a time suck like your time
is worth more than this game it could
have been a lot better sure now this
time we should fry it like make some
sort of real ending uh yeah I don't know
how to end the show I don't know like
some sort of outro
